as friends Kafka said you are free that
is why you are lost look around you
there no guardrails on your life the
reality is that people have tried to
paint a picture for you that says that
there are certain things that are right
they've tried to paint a world for you
that has a path well laid for it for you
to follow go to school get good grades
get a degree get a job retire that's the
plan that everybody wants you to believe
is really the plan but the reality is
that you are free to choose anything you
want the reality is you can go in any
path you want the reality is that path
is an illusion the truth of life is you
can go anywhere you want you can be
anything that you want you can become
anyone you want to become at the end of
the day the choice is yours at the end
of the day you get to construct yourself
you get to decide what it is that you
want to believe as long as you're not
violating the laws of physics even
physics is a game of maybe even physics
is uncertain and unknown at the end of
the day everything that you get to do
you get to choose you get to create you
get to build something that you want to
be and in that that's where people get
lost they don't understand that the
control is theirs they're lost because
they think there's a path they think
there's a way forward and emotionally it
doesn't resonate emotionally they're
unable to make it feel real because it
doesn't feel real they feel lost they're
unsure they don't know where to go or
who to become or even who they are and
that sense of being lost comes from the
freedom of being able to choose anything
you want but no one told you that you
could choose but as Tupac Shakur said
reality is wrong dreams are for real
it's the dream that you want to focus on
the dream does your ability to construct
that path the dream is you saying this
is the way that I want to walk the dream
is you saying all of this nothingness
all of this mass confusion all of this
probability and uncertainty I am going
to manifest something real and concrete
and directional in my life I choose to
be Who I am I choose to be who I become
I choose to build something with my
hands to create something that has never
been seen before to do something that
people have never done before
to believe in things that other people
cannot see that dream is my reality that
dream is what I'm going to bring into
existence that dream is the thing that I
believe in and in believing in that
dream and building that path and finding
out in deciding who you want to be for
the first time you will find yourself in
yourself a coming
so go become what you want to be don't
worry about walking somebody else's path
as vaclav havel said work for something
because it is good not just because it
stands a chance to succeed this is
something that I think a lot of people
misunderstand they think that the goal
of their life is to identify something
that will work to identify something
that has the odds stacked in its favor
rather than to think about what matters
what's important because if something is
important if it speaks to you if it's
going to give resonance to your life
then it's worth doing even if it's
something that is almost guaranteed to
fail when something matters enough
regardless of the odds it's worth
engaging with because even in the
pursuit you can find meaning and as
humans one of the things that we hunger
for most is purpose and meaning but you
can't have that purpose and meaning
without the thing that you're pursuing
be something that you believe to be
worthwhile so don't worry about whether
or not it succeeds ask only about
whether or not it's going to light you
on fire asked only if in those dark
moments that it will give you that sense
of mattering to this world that even in
the failure do you learn something about
yourself do you see the truth that you
matter and that even as a single person
even as one individual you can echo
through this world but that will never
happen by pursuing something small that
will never happen by pursuing something
simply because it can win it will only
happen by pursuing something that
matters and in that if you pursue
something it matters and you're able to
get to the point where you can see it
across the finish line or at least
advance it and make it a step closer to
becoming real in that we realize how
societies really are transformed in that
and trying the big the impossible
dreaming that thing that nobody else is
even willing to talk about in dreaming
that it is the crazy ones who are able
to change the world because the crazy
ones allowed themselves to
they allowed themselves to believe that
against all the odds a world that does
not yet exist could actually exist and
as Ralph Marcin said welcomed those big
sticky complicated problems in them are
your most powerful opportunities and
that's it the big problems the ones that
matter the things that will give you
purpose and meaning in your life they're
going to be hard but if you can look at
the hard things and show up and push
every day and keep striving and when you
fall down pick yourself back up and
focus only on one thing not whether or
not you're going to win but whether or
not it mattered that you played if you
do that every sacrifice in your life
will be worth it and if not nothing you
gain will have mattered as Frederick
Nietzsche said many are stubborn and
pursued the path they have chosen few in
pursuit of the goal and that's one of
the things that really trips people up
at the end of the day a path is an
option it's one of the ways forward but
it's the thing that you're doing right
now today so people get really focused
on that they make their happiness built
around that they think about that as the
thing but as the old saying goes don't
confuse the finger with the moon that
it's pointing at that's where you've got
to be really careful at the end of the
day the goal is the thing that you're
trying to achieve the goal is what
you're trying to get the path is
irrelevant the path is really your best
guess it's the thing you think is going
to work but if you become my optically
focused on that if you think that the
path really is the end thing if you
think the finger actually is the moon
then you miss the objective to which
you're fighting for then you're not
gonna have the energy to keep pushing
when things get really hard because
you're going to have mistaken the way of
getting
with the destination itself and I think
that people a lot of times throw hate on
having a destination on building towards
some big goal of having some grand thing
that they're chasing but as Einstein
said if you want to live a happy life
tie it to a goal not to people not to
things and the reason that he said that
people and things they change you've got
no control over them at the end of the
day the only thing that you really
control is yourself at the end of the
day the only thing that you can hope for
is to be going after something that has
no meaning something that has purpose
something that really gives you a reason
for being that directs your actions that
becomes the filter by which you judge
everything that really becomes the
center the gravitational center of your
own universe but it's the goal
so what is it that you really want you
have to identify that to meet everything
in life everything in life starts with
the goal and then work your way
backwards don't allow yourself to get
caught up in other people in putting up
happiness and somebody else in finding
purpose in something else and trying to
obtain Athene's have it be something
that you
which have it be something that you're
trying to
once you're on the path to becoming
you can find real you've got two choices
in life choice one you can become
somebody else choice - you can become
yourself now I really wish that there
was only one choice but in truth there's
not and most people choose to try to
become someone else because it's a road
map its points in the direction you see
someone you respond to something you
admire them you want to be like them and
in that process you've made your
decision in that process you decided to
become somebody else you have mistaken
the finger for the moon instead you need
to understand that being inspired by
somebody does not mean to become that
person to become that which inspires you
it is to understand fundamentally what
is it about that thing that excites you
what is it what is its essence and when
you can find its essence then you can
find out how it would apply to you
becoming you and as Zen she says flower
does not think about competing with the
flower next to it it just blooms and
that's really your job is to see the
outside world to see the flower next to
you to understand the amazing things
that are happening all around you all of
the incredible people and the essence of
what they have and what it is that
they've done to bring inside yourself
and find out what does that look like
when it's me not what do I look like
when I'm
and once you understand the difference
between that then you can really begin
to be something unique you can become
that thing that you were meant to be
that thing that makes you feel alive and
whole and that's it that's the secret
you're just trying to be something not
that's just inspiring to other people
but that you actually want to wake up
every day and be and that's the [__]
thing about it
so escaping you whatever you become a
lie the truth somebody else yourself
whatever it is and it's been every day
of your life there and as Albert
Einstein said everybody is a genius but
if you judge a fish by its ability to
climb a tree it will live it's whole
life believing that it's stupid and
that's what confuses people
people believe that they're done because
they're not finding their path they're
not defining things based on what
excites them and what they want to live
with every day they're just looking to
what the outside world says is good and
I think it's incredible that there are
other people doing things that are so
extraordinary that we aspire to be like
that but you have to understand the
difference between being like someone
and trying to actually be
so if what inspires you is that somebody
works hard work hard if what inspires
you is that somebody gets up every time
they fail get up every time you fail if
what you like is that they're themselves
with all their weird eccentricities and
quirks then be true to your
eccentricities and quirks but don't try
to embody their eccentricities and
quirks that's the surest way to become
the fish that thinks it's stupid because
it's being judged by trying to climb a
tree
so with Scott Belsky said when 99% of
the people doubt your idea
you're either gravely wrong or about to
make history and that's the terrifying
part you're not gonna know you're not
gonna know the difference but if you're
chasing somebody else's path if your
whole game is emulation if your whole
game is to mimic that which inspires you
you will never find the thing that's
real about you and look I don't know
about you but I can be wrong I can be
gravely wrong I can have people think me
an idiot and try something and fail as
long as it was true to me because then
the lesson that I'm gonna learn is going
to apply it's gonna take me an ever step
closer to actually being the person that
I want to become that I want to live
with every day I can't be them if I
don't understand who I want to be
so look inward identify your path
identify what excites you and go after
it as if your life depends on it because
in truth it does
all right listen and listen well because
no truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you are going to have
to learn more than anyone has ever
learned you're gonna have to push
yourself harder than anyone has ever
asked you to push yourself before you're
gonna go way beyond your breaking point
you're gonna run until you vomit you're
gonna study until you fall asleep you're
going to push and push and push and then
you're gonna push some [__] more and
when you hit the limit you're gonna push
again beyond that you're gonna force
yourself to an adaptation response and
why because it's Malcolm X said the
future belongs to those who prepare for
it today so if you don't put the work in
today if you don't do the unending
back-breaking work of developing
yourself into something greater the
world is gonna pass you by the people
that are going to own it are gonna be
the ones that did that work and the one
promise that I can make you right now is
that somebody somebody out there is out
working somebody right now is doing the
things times
somebody right now is doing the work of
failing and getting up and getting
better and pushing themselves and
triggering that glorious adaptation
response that makes humans the apex
predator someone right now they're
putting in that work and if you don't
the future is gonna belong to them and
as Martin Luther King jr. said you can't
fly than one if you can't run then walk
if you can't walk then crawl but
whatever you do you have to keep moving
forward it's not okay to make excuses
it's not gonna slow people down it's not
okay
to ask the world to stop so that you can
step out front it's not okay to expect
little of yourself and demand great
rewards the only thing that's okay is to
be in line with the way that the world
really works and if you want to be great
you've got to become capable of
greatness you've got to develop your
skill set you've got to take what you
have now and if that's crawling then
[__] crawl but you drag yourself ever
forward to a vision of yourself that is
so clear and so specific that nothing
could knock you off your path because
you my friends know exactly where you're
going you're willing to pay whatever
price it takes to get there and no
matter what anybody says no matter how
many [__] hecklers come for you no
matter how many people try to flow dirt
on you try to stop you try to knock you
down no matter how many [__] people
come for you at night while you sleep
you you'll rise and you will keep
pushing forward and you would get better
every day and no matter how many times
people chop at you knocking down knock
you up the path we will get back on you
will crawl so you can walk you will walk
till you run and then you will run until
you fly and that my friends is the only
path forward so if you want a [__]
future that makes you happy if you want
a world that you're excited about get
your ass out there and earn it
you